So, why is this useful to one?
Again, this is gonna be really useful when
you go interview at tech companies because
they love to ask you, what's the Big O
of the algorithm you just wrote?
And I kinda gave you some tricks, which
is like look for four loops, but also you
need to have a bit more critical eye in
terms of just think about in general,
the more items I add to this array,
how much longer is it gonna take, right?
The more inputs I give
it does it take longer?
So, that four loop trick doesn't
always work in the sense that there
can be other things that can contribute
to it, but just be aware of that.
Let's talk about why you would
use this actually in a day job.
So I gave an example here, which is like
let's say you're writing a comment system
for a website, and that comment system
had a sorting and filtering ability.
What's the appropriate Big O for
assorting and
filtering algorithm for a comment system?
Now, the response I want you
to have to that question is,
you didn't give me enough information,
it depends, right.
That's why whenever you ask
a computer scientist a question,
their answer is like 99 times out of 100,
it depends, I need more information.
So, I know it annoys people to say it
depends, give me more information,
but it's actually the correct
answer to that question.
Because, if you're sorting and
filtering for comments on a,
like a small colleges or site any
given article there's only three or
four different comments, the answer
is it doesn't matter, [LAUGH] right.
It doesn't matter if you have
complexity of Big O of n cubed.
Because if you're only sorting and
filtering three or four comments at
a time, it really just profoundly doesn't
matter how fast that algorithm takes,
because the difference between
three milliseconds and
15 milliseconds is basically
negligible to an end user, mostly.
But if you can write better code,
more understandable,
more maintainable code, so
that people can come back and
maintain your code later and better,
that's what you wanna do, right.
That's the correct
answer of that question.
It's not write the fastest sorting and
filtering algorithm because it
just doesn't make any difference.
My point here is, don't spend time
on things that don't matter, right.
But I used to work at Reddit,
right, and if Reddit had a sort and
filtering algorithm of n cubed,
you would never see reddit.com
ever again because it gets so
many comments, right.
So the Big O of that sorting
algorithm makes a massive difference.
It's something that was unscrapable
probably crashed the site consistently.
So this is why Big O is necessary in
the sense of like, it's a tool, right.
I didn't give you the way to judge this
algorithm is better than this algorithm,
that was not my intention, right.
That's like saying that like
if I gave you a 12 inch ruler,
you would never need a tape measure,
right.
It's just one tool in your toolbox for
measuring algorithms, but
you need to compare things
across multiple axes, right.
This is where I'm getting back to,
this is the science of trade offs, right.
And I'm giving you one of the measurement
sticks here to measure your algorithms.
Yeah, the question is always got to be,
it depends give me more information,
what do you need me to do?
And like again, this is kind of
a pro tip for interviewing as well.
Pull as much information out of the
interviewer that you possibly can, right.
If they just say, Hey, we're writing
a sorting for these comments,
don't just pop in there and start
writing a sorting algorithm right away,
that's the incorrect answer.
You wanna say, what am I doing?
Who's the end user?
What's my constraints?
What devices am I running on?
Am I running on 5G?
Am I running on 2G, right?
These are the kinda questions that
you need to be thinking about.
You need to paint a complete picture
of what the actual requirements are.